“I am Iron Man.” —Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.)
“I do anything and everything that Mr. Stark requires — including occasionally taking out the trash.” —Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow)
“Sir, I’m going to have to ask you to exit the donut.” —Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson)
“Look, it’s me, I’m here, deal with it. Let’s move on.” —James Rhodes (Don Cheadle) 
“This drink, I like it. Another!” —Thor (Chris Hemsworth)
“Mew-mew? What’s mew-mew?” —Darcy Lewis (Kat Dennings)
“Does he need CPR? Because I totally know CPR.” —Darcy Lewis (Kat Dennings)
“I don’t want to kill anyone. I don’t like bullies. I don’t care where they’re from.” —Steve Rogers (Chris Evans)
“I can do this all day.” —Steve Rogers
“I’m gonna need a rain check on that dance.” —Steve Rogers
“I’m just a kid from Brooklyn.” —Steve Rogers
“That’s my secret, Captain. I’m always angry.” —Bruce Banner (Mark Ruffalo)
“We have a Hulk.” —Tony Stark
“There’s only one God, ma’am, and I’m pretty sure he doesn’t dress like that.” —Steve Rogers
“He’s adopted.” —Thor on Loki
“Puny god.” —Hulk
“Doth mother know you weareth her drapes?” —Tony Stark
“It’s good to meet you, Dr. Banner. Your work on anti-electron collisions is unparalleled. And I’m a huge fan of the way you lose control and turn into an enormous green rage monster.” —Tony Stark
“Before we get started, does anyone want to get out?” —Steve Rogers
“Hey fellas, either one of you know where the Smithsonian is? I’m here to pick up a fossil.” —Natasha Romanoff (Scarlett Johansson)
“On your left.” —Steve Rogers
“I do what he does, just slower.” —Sam Wilson (Anthony Mackie)
“You get hurt, hurt ’em back. You get killed… walk it off.” —Steve Rogers
“Language.” —Steve Rogers
“The city is flying. We’re fighting an army of robots. And I have a bow and arrow. None of this makes sense.” —Clint Barton (Jeremy Renner)
“Pick on someone your own size!” —Scott Lang (Paul Rudd)
“Ah, she left me. And my mom died too. And my dad got deported. But I got the van!” —Luis (Michael Peña)
“Baskin Robbins always finds out.” —Dale (Gregg Turkington)
“I don’t care.” —T’Challa (Chadwick Boseman)
“So, you like cats?” —Sam Wilson
“Anybody on our side hiding any shocking and fantastic abilities they’d like to disclose? I’m open to suggestions.” —Tony
“Dormammu, I’ve come to bargain.” —Doctor Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch)
“Just Wong? Like Adele? Or Aristotle? Drake, Bono, Eminem…” —Doctor Strange
“Don’t do anything I would do, and definitely don’t do anything I wouldn’t do. There’s a little gray area in there, and that’s where you operate.” —Tony Stark
“So… you got detention.” —Steve Rogers
“We know each other! He’s a friend from work!” —Thor
“I’m made of rocks, as you can see, but don’t let that intimidate you. You don’t need to be afraid, unless you’re made of scissors! Just a little rock-paper-scissors joke for you!” —Korg (Taika Waititi)
“There was one time when we were children. He transformed himself into a snake, and he knows that I love snakes. So I went to pick up the snake to admire it, and he transformed back into himself and he was like, ‘Blech, it’s me!’ And he stabbed me. We were 8 at the time.” —Thor
“Hey, auntie.” —Killmonger (Michael B. Jordan)
“The real question is… WHAT ARE THOOOOOOOSE?” —Shuri (Letitia Wright)
“Guns. So primitive.” —Okoye (Danai Gurira)
“If you say one more word, I’ll feed you to my children! I’m kidding. We’re vegetarians.” —M’Baku (Winston Duke)
“Dude, you’re embarrassing me in front of the wizards.” —Tony Stark
“I don’t want to go.” —Peter Parker
“Get lost, Squidward.” —Tony Stark
“They taught it on Asgard. It was an elective.” —Thor
“What master do I serve? What am I supposed to say, Jesus?” —Peter Quill
“You can do it. You can do anything. You’re the world’s greatest grandma.” —Cassie (Abby Ryder Fortson)
“You want a juice box and some string cheese?” —Hank Pym (Michael Douglas)
“Higher, further, faster, baby.” —Carol Danvers (Brie Larson)
“If toast is cut diagonally, I can’t eat it.” —Nick Fury
“Honestly, until this exact second, I thought you were a Build-a-Bear.” —Tony Stark
“I get emails from a raccoon, so nothing sounds crazy.” —Natasha Romanoff
“Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You’re my only hope.” — Leia Organa
“I find your lack of faith disturbing.” — Darth Vader
“It’s the ship that made the Kessel run in less than twelve parsecs. I’ve outrun Imperial starships. Not the local bulk cruisers, mind you. I’m talking about the big Corellian ships, now. She’s fast enough for you, old man.” — Han Solo
“The Force will be with you. Always.” — Obi-Wan Kenobi
“Why, you stuck-up, half-witted, scruffy-looking nerf herder!” — Leia Organa
“Never tell me the odds!” — Han Solo
“Do. Or do not. There is no try.” — Yoda
“No. *I* am your father.” — Darth Vader
“When gone am I, the last of the Jedi will you be. The Force runs strong in your family. Pass on what you have learned.” — Yoda
“I’ll never turn to the dark side. You’ve failed, your highness. I am a Jedi, like my father before me.” — Luke Skywalker
“Now, young Skywalker, you will die.” — Emperor Palpatine
“Just for once, let me look on you with my own eyes.” — Anakin Skywalker
“Fear is the path to the dark side. Fear leads to anger; anger leads to hate; hate leads to suffering. I sense much fear in you.” — Yoda
“Well, if droids could think, there’d be none of us here, would there?” — Obi-Wan Kenobi
“You’re a wizard, Harry.” —Rubeus Hagrid
“Nitwit! Blubber! Oddment! Tweak!” —Albus Dumbledore
“You’re a little scary sometimes, you know that? Brilliant…but scary.” —Ron Weasley
“It does not do well to dwell on dreams and forget to live.” —Albus Dumbledore
“We could all have been killed—or worse, expelled.” —Hermione Granger
“Never trust anything that can think for itself if you can’t see where it keeps its brain.” —Arthur Weasley
“Why couldn’t it be ‘follow the butterflies’?” —Ron Weasley
“It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.” —Albus Dumbledore
“Dobby is free!” —Dobby the free elf
“Again, I’ll reach out my hand; but this time, you’ll take it.” -Kylo Ren/Ben Solo (Adam Driver)
“You’re the Spiderman, from Youtube!” -Ned (Jacob Batalon)
“YOU! You foul, loathsome, evil little cockroach!” -Hermoine Granger (Emma Watson)
“I know my value, everyone else’s opinion doesn’t really matter.” -Peggy Carter
“Son, get me that wrench so I can smack you with it.” -Ben Beehler
“I placed him in the Gulag.” -Thayer Luscian
“I cannot say I have invented the kiss, but I can certainly say I have perfected it.” -Thayer Luscian
“I’m not like those OTHER girls.” -Josh Lachney
“I’m okay with your bunny.” -Dr. Collender
“I’m a supermodel.” -Josh Lachney
“I’m not into boys.” -Josh Lachney
“Drugs, you say? When’s the next flight to Mexico?” -Josh Lachney
“Why haven’t you killed anything?” -Jakob Heggland
“I’m just a brilliant guy!” -Mr Thurber
“And behold, you shall be thrown into the toy bin!” -Jacob Heggland
“You just gotta take a side and cuss some kids out” -Thayer Luscian
“I don’t believe in the Christian tradition and I’ve been married five times.” -Dr. Collender
“My entire being is just an extension of VSA.” -Thayer Luscian
“I’m horrified at what I’ve become.” -Gabe Saunders
“I make anything look sharp and suave, ‘cause I’m just that cool kind of guy.” -Mr. Thurber
“I have a nice nose.” -Daniel Adams
“I’m basically Tony Stark except not rich and not a playboy.” -Jacob Cohen
“Girls flip out at seeing me.” -Logan Wright
“Karleigh hates me.” -Naomi Jones
